---
layout: post
title: Python2 vs Python3. Main differences
author: Iurii Ivanov
tags: [python2, python3]
---

WIP: Here is some important and major changes/differences between Python v.2 and v.3

Python2 was pretty old, the last version was released in 2010, but the major one in 2000.

Python3 was released in 2008, 11 years ago. And many developers just started to develop their libraries using the 3rd version. So there is situation right now, that there even no support of some libraries by Python2 (good to know, that v.2 support is ending... the clock https://pythonclock.org/). 
But it is still legacy and it is possible, if you migrate to Python3 from v.2, you will have to port old libs to new Python version 2, because of this reason. 

So it is always good to know what can help.

---

The __future__ module - I really forgot the thing :( 

Python 3.x introduced some Python 2-incompatible keywords and features that can be imported via the in-built __future__ module in Python 2. It is recommended to use __future__ imports it if you are planning Python 3.x support for your code. For example, if we want Python 3.x’s integer division behavior in Python 2, we can import it via ???

- print_function ???

1. The major change, `strings`. In 3rd version strings are Unicode by default. In Python2 you had byte strings (ASCII) and Unicode strings, so to operate with it, you had to do encoding or decoding. For unicode string value in 2nd, you require to define them with "u".

2. Other changes like print became a function, integer division. For example, because of rounding, 5/2 in Python 2 equals to 2, and it equals 2.5 in 3rd version. Print was re-wrote because of crazy syntax and specific formatting.

3. New features in Python3: typing (from Python 3.5)

4. The new `range()` function introduced to perform iterations. Basically it just uses xrange() from Python2, which returned generator instead of list. But in `Python 2` there were both, `xrange` and `range`.

5. Exceptions

6. Map(), filter() and zip() now return iterators instead of lists.

7. Something with byte type in 3rd Python ...
